Project Description: This restaurant recommendation application is called CityFood. CityFood combines two simple and universal pleasures – travel and food. The platform is designed to allow users to explore new cities by discovering new restaurants that match their existing preferences.
In order to use CityFood, users start by inputting a list of their favorite restaurants along with selecting the new city for which they wanted recommendations. The recommendation engine then uses the existing preferences of users to help them discover new restaurants that they are likely to enjoy in the target city of their choice. Users are allowed to input restaurants in the same city as the city they input, and in that case those input restaurants are excluded from the output. Cuisine, price, ambience, customer reviews, along with other restaurant features are taken into account to ensure that users like the restaurants that are recommended. 

Project Goal: As previously mentioned, the overarching goal of CityFood is to utilize users’ existing restaurant preferences to ensure that they are able to find restaurants that they love in a new city of their choice. By combining aspects of information retrieval and social information, the goal is to provide users with recommendations that are relevant to their tastes as well as reliable in their quality. The information retrieval of cuisine, price, and ambience ensures that restaurants are relevant to users, and cross-checking with customer reviews ensures that the restaurants meet standards of quality. Thus, the platform aims to provide food-loving users with recommendations that suit their taste and provide exceptional experiences.

Information Retrieval Aspect: To start, users input their favorite restaurants that they select from a drop-down menu. Next, they select the city for which they want to generate recommendations. Thus, the query from users is in the form of a list of restaurants and a selection of the ‘new’ city. The information retrieval system then uses this query and selects the relevant parameters from the list of restaurants (including cuisine and price level) in order to match the existing list of restaurants with restaurants in the database of the new city.



*** NOTE *** This project uses a Yelp dataset from Kaggle. The dataset contained 6,990,280 reviews from 150,346 businesses in 11 metropolitan areas. It included reviews for many types of businesses so I needed to filter out the reviews that did not correspond to restaurants. Each business had a list of categories which represented what type of business it was, and I used this to remove businesses that were not restaurants. Once I filtered out other businesses, there were 52,268 restaurants in the dataset, each of which was listed with a star rating as well as its location. The JSON file that contained the reviews also showed the number of stars that the customer gave the restaurant.
